# PODNAME: Mail::MtPolicyd::Cookbook::Installation
# ABSTRACT: How to install mtpolicyd

=head1 GET STARTED WITH BASIC MTPOLICYD INSTALLATION

=head2 INSTALLATION

=head3 INSTALL MTPOLICYD PACKAGE

There are prebuild packages of mtpolicyd available for serveral linux distributions. The easiest way is to install mtpolicyd by installing the package build for your distribution.

Installing the package will create a system user/group mtpolicyd on your system, an init script and a default configuration.

After installing the package you should be able to start mtpolicyd by just executing the startup script:

  /etc/init.d/mtpolicyd start

=head3 INSTALL MTPOLICYD FROM CPAN

=head2 TEST MTPOLICYD

Now the daemon should be up:

  $ ps -u mtpolicyd f
    PID TTY      STAT   TIME COMMAND
   2566 ?        Ss     0:12 /usr/bin/mtpolicyd (master)
   2731 ?        S      0:28  \_ /usr/bin/mtpolicyd (idle)
  19464 ?        S      0:26  \_ /usr/bin/mtpolicyd (idle)
  28858 ?        S      0:26  \_ /usr/bin/mtpolicyd (idle)
  32372 ?        S      0:24  \_ /usr/bin/mtpolicyd (idle)

And it should be listening on localhost:12345:

  $ netstat -aenpt | grep :12345
  tcp        0      0 127.0.0.1:12345         0.0.0.0:*               LISTEN      0          17333578    -

Now test it with a simple query:

  $ policyd-client -h localhost:12345

Paste the following request to the command:

  reverse_client_name=smtp.google.com
  sender=bob@gmail.com
  client_address=192.168.1.1
  recipient=ich@markusbenning.de
  helo_name=smtp.google.com

Terminate the request by a blank line. Just press enter.

The mtpolicyd should respond with a action like:

  PREPEND X-MtScore: NO score

=head2 ADD A MTPOLICYD QUERY TO YOUR POSTFIX SMTPD

Open you postfix main.cf configuration file in a text editor. It should be located below /etc/postfix.

Add a 'check_policyd_service inet:127.0.0.1:12345' check to your smtpd_recipient_restrictions:

  smtpd_recipient_restrictions = permit_mynetworks, permit_sasl_authenticated, reject_unauth_destination, check_policy_service inet:127.0.0.1:12345

Now restart postfix. Now follow your maillog as new mails arrive. There should be a mtpolicyd line for every query.

=head2 CONGRATULATIONS

Your mtpolicyd is now configured and running with the default configuration.

You may now want to continue with reading L<Mail::MtPolicyd::Cookbook::DefaultConfig> which explains what the default configuration does.

